Hi everyone, welcome
to the class.
This video will talk about
introduction to
machine learning.
Before we talk about
machine learning,
Let's talk about a
separate password here.
Or you might have heard
about data science,
which some of you might be
taking other courses
in data science.
Surely you heard about
machine learning
because this course is
going to be about
machine learning.
Many of you might have
heard about artificial
intelligence,
which is another
buzzword along with
the machine learning and
data science these days.
Maybe you also heard
about deep learning,
which is another height world.
Let's briefly talk
about what these are.
For data science.
It's really big interdisciplinary
field about data.
You can think about it's
actually anything
to do with data,
including Data Pipelining,
even Data Collection and
Data Munging and cleaning
and Data Analysis,
which may include the
manual data analysis,
including some simple checks
or exploratory data analysis.
Or can also include
the machine learning techniques
to analyze the data.
Since the data science that
has a really big spectrum,
it can oftentimes called the
soft and hard data science.
Soft data science means
dealing with the
techniques that doesn't
require a lot of software
engineering skills
are a lot of math skills.
Something like data
visualization and
reporting, dashboard,
those thing.
As well as simple Data Analysis,
can fall into the category
of where's the
hard data science.
Those involve more mathematical
and more technical skills,
such as analyzing data
or building systems
using machine learning.
Also, data science can
deal with the data that's
a small size that can fit into
your Excel file or
something like that.
Or it's a big data that sits
in the Big Data Warehouse.
In industry, the job
description looks like this.
The data scientist's the
job role can be very,
they can do data collection,
cleaning and munging
data are preparing
data for whatever
the company needs.
Or they can build machine
learning models and
do the testing on
those data would build
a system as well
as they can also do the
visualization and stuff.
Usually data scientists
have diverse backgrounds
and they require
interdisciplinary knowledge.
Machine learning.
You mentioned the machine
learning several times
during the talk
about data science.
Machine learning is part
of data science and it
is also a sub field of
artificial intelligence.
It focuses on learning
algorithm and
building models and
training them on the data.
Machine learning consists of
different types of loading,
such as supervised learning,
unsupervised learning, or
reinforcement learning.
Many machine learning models,
they are coming from
statistical learning.
Machine learning extends
the statistical learning
by including more
complex algorithm,
which deal with more
complex data and
bigger data and more
efficient algorithms.
Any industry machine learning
engineers can develop and test
the machine learning models and
design machine
learning experiments
and build machine
learning systems.
Artificial intelligence.
It has a long
history in the CNS,
and it is about problem-solving
with the intelligence.
That means an AI agent will make
an optimal decision
according to its algorithm.
Whether it has a learning
component or not,
to maximize the goal as a
response to the environment.
You might think that I
feel this very practical
because you're seeing a lot
of applications these days.
However, AI also has
a lot of theoretical
components in it.
Industry AI engineers
and experts.
They are more or less
similar to ML engineers.
But in broad sets
skills including
mass and programming skills
as well as machine-learning.
They work on building AI system,
building machine learning models
that drilling the processing,
robotics and computer
vision and stuff.
In deep learning focuses
on neural network models.
Building neural network models
and training them on data.
It also tells us a lot of
optimization algorithms
and training
techniques in order to deal
with a complex neural
network model training.
It is a very suitable for
complex data such as images,
texts and voice, and graphs,
and hybrid types of data.
It is a subfield of
artificial intelligence and
subfield of machine learning.
In industry them learning
engineers to work on
machine learning problems.
It tells is a
complex data such as
images and texts and
things like that.
Or if a high
performance computing.
We're going to show
some summary diagram.
There's a Data Science which is
a big interdisciplinary field,
and there's AI also
very big field.
Data science is
about anything to do
with data, including
data analysis.
Whereas artificial
intelligence is about solving
problem using
intelligent algorithms.
In intersection,
when the AI algorithm is
learning from the data,
it is called the
machine learning.
Particularly if it tells you is
a complex data with a neural
network architecture,
it is called deep learning.
Here is a Google trend on
the term on machine learning
and software engineering.
Just to compare how
the machine learning
becomes popular for
recent few years.
The term machine learning has
been around for a long time.
However, it became much more
popular during the last
five or more years.
This graph also indicates
that the job girls in
machine learning has
grown up really much,
about 350% during
the past few years.
As you can see,
machine learning is
a top skills in the jobs
that involve the AI skills.
That already sounds
like ML is very cool.
Let's talk about what ML can do.
Machine learning is applied
everywhere these days.
For example, when you
do online shopping,
you often see this
product recommendation
based on your browsing
and shopping history.
Those use machine
learning algorithms
to predict the products
that are more likely to be
purchased by the customers.
The same goes for
movie recommendation
and music recommendations.
Sentiment analysis is very
popular applications these days.
It is standard by now,
the data scientists
analyze the text,
such as news articles and
social media articles to figure
our citizens sentiment
on political events.
Similarly, the product
review scales or
restaurant review scales can be
predicted by machine
learning algorithms,
which information can be
important for businesses.
Machine learning is also used
a lot in the financial industry.
For example, we can
forecast the stock price
using machine learning.
Machine learning is also used
for algorithmic trading,
as well as robo-advisor,
which gives advice for
people or how to
allocate their assets.
Also, it can be used for
forecasting housing price.
As you can imagine,
machine learning can be
also useful in medical industry.
By applying machine
learning models
in the images or tables,
you can help doctors to make
a medical diagnosis
or medical decisions.
It is also used in many
science disciplines,
such as the bioscience.
For example, machine
learning techniques can be
applied to this graph
data to inspect
the protein interactions or
this type of data for
the study of genetics.
Machine learning is also key
component in other things.
Smart sensors and smart
devices produce a lot of data.
Also, machine learning plays
a key role on
analyzing those data.
Machine learning is also
used in self-driving cars.
Self-driving cars can
use machine learning and
deep learning to recognize
images and make decisions.
Let's talk about what we'll
learn in this course.
Here is a data science
project life cycle.
Data should be collected and
pipelined into data warehouse.
There's a data
governance that though
data warehouse it
has to implement.
There will be also
data pooling and
cleaning and
maintaining the data.
That part is called data
engineering mostly.
Data science, on the other hand,
focuses on using the
data and analyzing
those data that were
prepared by the data
engineering process.
You can include the selection of
the dose data from the
warehouse and then cleaning
those data and
exploratory data analysis
and data preprocessing,
which means that we prepare data
for the model to consume.
After that, data
scientists will build
the models and then do
the model training.
There is a result and
depending on the result,
they had to go back
to build models.
Or if the result is so strange,
then they will have to
collect more data or select
more data and do
this cycle again.
Among the steps that
we mentioned in
the data science project cycle,
we're going to talk
about a few things
and we don't cover
everything for example,
this course is not about data
collection and pipelining.
We'll talk about a little
bit of data cleaning
and EDA and data preprocessing.
But the main focus will
be how to build a model,
how to select models,
and how to do the
training and do
the testing and
analyze those results.
Let's talk about
what is learning?
When these children
learn alphabets,
they can learn to generalize.
For example, they can
recognize this letter,
whether it's a small or large.
It has a different font or
it has a different color.
Or the image it looks angled,
or the letter is in the word.
It seems so obvious for people,
however, to make a
motion to learn this.
It is not trivial.
Here's some example of
supervised learning.
There are images and the labels.
The labels are the
names of these animals.
A supervised learning
model learns to
predict the label given data.
Unsupervised learning
actually resembles
very much how a human learn.
In babies stage, they
don't know about
the geometric shapes and
colors but overtime,
they learn to recognize
this visual properties and
also recognize the similarities
and dissimilarities
between them,
even before they learn about
the names of this
color and shapes.
Those type of learning
without labels
are called
unsupervised learning.
Unsupervised learning
is all about learning
underlying features and
extracting information,
recognizing patterns
in the data,
or clustering
similar data points.
Another type of learning
is reinforcement learning,
which the AI agent learns
how to act from experience.
Experience is either
reward or punishment.
It is very much similar
to the animal training.
We give treats or punishment
to make the animal
behave desired way.
Reinforcement learning is used
a lot in AI and robotics.
Let's change gears
and then talk about
some definitions that frequently
show up in machine learning.
Data in machine learning
can be any forms,
such as tables,
images and texts,
and sounds and graph.
It can be any format.
However, we're
going to talk about
mostly the tabulated
data format.
Let's take one example
of this table.
Let's say the unsupervised
learning task
is to predict a house price.
This one would be our labels.
In this labels also
are called targets.
All this columns except the
labels are there called
the features and also they
are called predictors.
Which means that those
features and predictors are
used in the machine learning
models to predict the labels.
This row of the tables are
called observations or samples.
Which means that they
are instances of data.
Here are some few examples of
machine learning
tasks for example,
prediction include the
classification regression,
and these are in
supervised learning and
clustering into groups,
the similar data
points together and
anomaly detection and
dimensionality reduction.
They are in a category of
unsupervised learning.
There are other emotional
learning tasks,
such as data generation and
feature selection which are
typically not categorized as
supervised learning or
unsupervised learning.
However, this type of
machine learning tasks can
be used to enhance the performance
of a supervised tasks.
Let's talk about prediction
tasks in supervised learning.
Prediction task can be
either classification or
regression depending on
the labels datatype.
When the label is
categorical variable,
which means a zero or one,
or 1,2,3 or A, B,
C. These are called
categorical variables,
and in that case, it
becomes classification.
If the categories are binary,
it is called the binary
class classification.
If it's a multi categories
call them multi-class
classification.
Binary multiclass.
The other hand,
if the label variable is
a real valued variable,
so something like 0.1,
0.999, something
like that, or 3.4.
Real value variables to predict
those labels given the data
is called a regression problem.
With that in mind,
let's talk about
how supervised learning
works briefly.
Here's the data. Data consists
of features and target.
Feature usually we call
x and target is y.
Then we have a model,
and this feature is
input to the model.
The model might
have a parameters
inside or hyper parameters.
That means some settings
the user get to choose.
Then after feeding the features
into model the border
will make a prediction.
Initially the model does
not predict very well.
There will be some error between
the prediction and
target variable.
This adder can be used to
tweak the model to have
a better prediction next
iteration and
over-designed iteration,
the model becomes more accurate.
That's how supervised
learning works.
Here is a brief taxonomy of
unsupervised learning models.
Models that has
internal parameters,
it is called the
parametric models.
Without explaining what
those are individually,
these are examples of
parametric models,
whereas non-parametric models or
doesn't have
internal parameters.
These are examples of
non-parametric models.
Although we're not going to talk
about every single model here.
We'll talk about most of
these models in this class.